okay let's discuss this with Hassan
barar who's a professor of international
Affairs at Qatar University joining us
from Aman welcome back to Al jazer so
there's been some Furious reaction out
of Israel to Harris's comments accusing
her of showing gaps between the
positions of the US and Israel when it
comes to the war on Gaza but is there
any reason to believe that policy
towards Israel under a Harris presidency
will
change well this is thank you Darren I
think this remains to be seen we know
that this rhetoric is very important and
this it's no beating around the bush
Harris made it perfectly clear that
netanyahu's speech at the Congress would
fool no one it's the responsibility of
Israel to a um breach a ceas fa and
secondly which is more important even is
that there's a day after which is um
which is self-determination for the
Palestinian two-state solution so she
has not really taken back by the the the
speech of netan which was full of lies
and deception and she she as if she
understand the needs of Israel for
security and and what Israel wants which
is expansion and denying the Palestinian
right to self-determination so she she
is insinuating that under her leadership
uh in her Administration if uh she got
elected uh she would follow a different
approach and I think this is very
important it it carries a lot of Courage
on the part of Harris look and and
looking ahead uh Netanyahu uh we expect
him to be meeting with Donald Trump
what's he banking on here is he banking
on Trump's return to power to bolster
his own political
fortunes yes you're right I think one of
his objectives is to M fences with Trump
after the relationship was troubled a
little bit uh because of netanyahu's
statements supporting Biden at one point
I think he understand that Trump doesn't
care about the Palestinians and all he
cares about is to have a transaction
transactional foreign policy where he
can continue with the Abraham Accord so
Netanyahu probably think think that you
know all of his lies and deception would
resonate resonate well with with Trump
uh so he's trying to Bank in that he's
trying to uh uh kind of uh reignite the
bonds or the Lost bonds between both of
them uh in anticipation of Trump's
winning elections in November but here's
the thing I mean the the big question of
course is whether Netanyahu himself will
still be in power later year if Trump
wins the election with all the domestic
pressures on him of course there's the
looming ICC arrest warrant and we were
just showing the demonstrations also uh
in the US against him so uh I mean he's
he's a lot of people would describe him
as being internationally
isolated he is isolated internationally
and even internally uh given the uh the
mounting pressure from the Grassroots
from demonstrations in Tel Aviv and
different uh C is in the occupied
territories I mean in isra in in
Palestine 1948 uh we've seen this
pressure and even uh his opponent the
opposition leader a Leed was saying that
Nyah was better off staying at Israel
than taking this uh trip to the states
where which he achieved nothing uh this
is the first time that we see the
Israeli leaders giving a speech at the
Congress in a divided congress with with
a huge boycott and this is a statement
that criticizing Israel and having
differen Isel is no longer a taboo in
the United States so this adds to his
own isolation even not internationally I
think more important in in America now a
few people would come in public and
support Israel because the the criminal
war is no longer Justified and probably
it's outlived this usefulness for many
of the the American uh observers all
right thank you so much Hassan barar
thanks for joining us from
Amman make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer